src/routes/manual/02-normal_mode/01-hand-menu.md, before:

---
title: Hand Menu
---

## Overview
The hand menu provides a fast and comfortable way to create atoms by attaching an atom selection menu to the user's hand.

<img src="/images/manual/hand_menu.gif" alt="Hand Menu" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

### Usage
The hand menu can be opened by turning the flat palm of your left hand towards your face.
It automatically closes upon turning or closing your hand.
If you would prefer not to use the hand menu functionality, it can be deactivated in the Settings menu.
However, be aware that this also deactivates the **Chain mode** button, meaning you can no longer switch between interaction modes.

### Buttons
- **Atom buttons**: The main content of the menu; pressing one of them creates an atom of the corresponding type.
- **Scroll buttons**: The arrows on the right are used to scroll up and down to find different atom types.
- **Chain mode button**: This button appears in the palm of the user. 
Pressing it toggles the interaction mode between normal selection and chain selection.

Commit message:

Updated hand menu documentation to include measurement button

src/routes/manual/02-normal_mode/01-hand-menu.md, after:

---
title: Hand Menu
---

## Overview
The hand menu provides a fast and comfortable way to create atoms by attaching an atom selection menu to the user's hand.

<img src="/images/manual/hand_menu.gif" alt="Hand Menu" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

### Usage
The hand menu can be opened by turning the flat palm of your left hand towards your face.
It automatically closes upon turning or closing your hand.
If you would prefer not to use the hand menu functionality, it can be deactivated in the Settings menu.
However, be aware that this also deactivates the **Chain mode** button, meaning you can no longer switch between interaction modes.

### Buttons
- **Atom buttons**: The main content of the menu; pressing one of them creates an atom of the corresponding type.
- **Scroll buttons**: The arrows on the right are used to scroll up and down to find different atom types.
- **Chain mode button**: This button appears in the palm of the user. 
Pressing it toggles the interaction mode that enables chain selection.
- **Measurement mode button**: This button appears below the **Chain mode** button. 
It is used to activate/deactivate the interaction mode used for measuring angles and distances.
