src/routes/manual/03-collaboration/03-server_controls.md, before:

---
title: Server Controls
---

## Camera
In the server scene you have several interaction possibilities.
In the case of multiple connected clients, the buttons on the bottom right labeled **next** and **previous** let you switch your current view between the clients.
The view then shows what the selected client sees.

You can also change to a specific client's view by clicking on the corresponding entry in the user panel on the left.

## Loading and Saving
In the bottom right, there are two additional buttons **Load** and **Save**.
The **Load** button opens a file dialog and lets you import all file formats supported by **OpenBabel**.
The loaded molecule appears in front of the currently selected client.
You can select a molecule in the active scene under the section **AtomWorld** and press the **Save** button to store the data in a file.
Here, you have the option to pick a supported output format (by adding the corresponding file extension) and the data is automatically converted and saved in this format.

## Creating Molecules
Pressing the **C** key on your keyboard activates a text input field. 
Entering any valid element symbol <a href="https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simplified_Molecular_Input_Line_Entry_System" target="_blank">SMILES</a> string and pressing the **Enter** key creates the specified molecule.

<img src="/images/manual/server_molecule_creation.png" alt="Creating molecules on the server" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

Pressing the **Clear** button at the bottom of the screen deletes all molecules in the scene.

## Settings
A settings menu is activated by pressing the **Settings** button; it contains separate pages with different categories of settings.
This includes settings for the force field, the UI, networking and more.
Choosing your desired settings and pressing the **Save** button in the menu updates the settings both in the server scene and on any connected devices, if applicable.

## Interacting with Molecules
In the server scene, molecules can be interacted with using the mouse in a similar way to the AR environment.
Clicking on an atom highlights it and displays a tooltip with information. 
Subsequent clicks on connected atoms display information about bonds, angles and torsion terms.
Whole molecules can also be selected by clicking on a corner of their bounding box.

Tooltips can be dragged around the screen on the top bar or collapsed to save space.

<img src="/images/manual/server_tooltip.png" alt="Server Tooltip" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

### Structure formulas
When selecting a whole molecule, the tooltip offers the additional option to generate a structure formula for the molecule using a Python library.

<img src="/images/manual/structure_formula.png" alt="Structure Formula" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

The structure formula window can be dragged (similar to the tooltip) or resized using the indicated corners.
Atoms can be selected within the structure formula (turquoise) or within the molecule (default selection colors).
The resulting highlighting is shown in both representations on corresponding structures.

Instead of displaying this highlighting, you may also choose to show a heatmap on the structure formula, which can for example be obtained by using eye-tracking data.

## Other interactions
There are more shortcuts available to perform specific actions on the server. 
Hovering your mouse over the *Info* icon in the top right corner shows you a list of them.

<img src="/images/manual/info_panel.png" alt="Info panel" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

Commit message:

Added warning about unexpected behavior when scaling non-uniformly

src/routes/manual/03-collaboration/03-server_controls.md, after:

---
title: Server Controls
---

## Camera
In the server scene you have several interaction possibilities.
In the case of multiple connected clients, the buttons on the bottom right labeled **next** and **previous** let you switch your current view between the clients.
The view then shows what the selected client sees.

You can also change to a specific client's view by clicking on the corresponding entry in the user panel on the left.

## Loading and Saving
In the bottom right, there are two additional buttons **Load** and **Save**.
The **Load** button opens a file dialog and lets you import all file formats supported by **OpenBabel**.
The loaded molecule appears in front of the currently selected client.
You can select a molecule in the active scene under the section **AtomWorld** and press the **Save** button to store the data in a file.
Here, you have the option to pick a supported output format (by adding the corresponding file extension) and the data is automatically converted and saved in this format.

## Creating Molecules
Pressing the **C** key on your keyboard activates a text input field. 
Entering any valid element symbol <a href="https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simplified_Molecular_Input_Line_Entry_System" target="_blank">SMILES</a> string and pressing the **Enter** key creates the specified molecule.

<img src="/images/manual/server_molecule_creation.png" alt="Creating molecules on the server" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

Pressing the **Clear** button at the bottom of the screen deletes all molecules in the scene.

## Settings
A settings menu is activated by pressing the **Settings** button; it contains separate pages with different categories of settings.
This includes settings for the force field, the UI, networking and more.
Choosing your desired settings and pressing the **Save** button in the menu updates the settings both in the server scene and on any connected devices, if applicable.

## Interacting with Molecules
In the server scene, molecules can be interacted with using the mouse in a similar way to the AR environment.
Clicking on an atom highlights it and displays a tooltip with information. 
Subsequent clicks on connected atoms display information about bonds, angles and torsion terms.
Whole molecules can also be selected by clicking on a corner of their bounding box.

Tooltips can be dragged around the screen on the top bar or collapsed to save space.

<img src="/images/manual/server_tooltip.png" alt="Server Tooltip" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

### Structure formulas
When selecting a whole molecule, the tooltip offers the additional option to generate a structure formula for the molecule using a Python library.

<img src="/images/manual/structure_formula.png" alt="Structure Formula" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />

The structure formula window can be dragged (similar to the tooltip) or resized using the indicated corners.
Atoms can be selected within the structure formula (turquoise) or within the molecule (default selection colors).
The resulting highlighting is shown in both representations on corresponding structures.

Instead of displaying this highlighting, you may also choose to show a heatmap on the structure formula, which can for example be obtained by using eye-tracking data.

## Transforming Molecules
Selecting a molecule creates a Gizmo consisting of three colored arrows in its center (this can be toggled on or off using the **Tab** key).
Clicking and dragging one of the arrows moves the entire molecule along this line, while clicking the cube in the center allows to freely move the molecule.
You can switch to similar Gizmos for rotating or scaling the molecule by pressing the number keys on the keyboard (1 for translation, 2 for rotation, 3 for scaling, 4, 5 and 6 for combinations).

> Scaling a molecule non-uniformly (stretching it more along one axis than others) will cause unexpected behavior!

## Other interactions
There are more shortcuts available to perform specific actions on the server. 
Hovering your mouse over the *Info* icon in the top right corner shows you a list of them.

<img src="/images/manual/info_panel.png" alt="Info panel" class="mx-auto max-w-md" />
