src/routes/development/00-implementation/00-introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

## How to develop in chARp?

In this development guide we explain the fundamental implementation details about chARp.

## Overview
### Important scripts
chARp is built using many scripts for specific purposes (e.g. a settings script for the settings menu).
However, there are some larger and more important scripts:
- **GlobalCtrl**: This script controls and coordinates most functionalities in the **MainScene**.
It provides the implementation for molecule creation and manipulation, core computations and features like the *Undo* functionality.
- **Molecule**,**Atom** and **Bond**: These scripts contain the characteristic data of molecules, atoms and chemical bonds.
This includes things like a list of connected atoms, a list of bonds in the molecule, methods for spawning tooltips (when selecting a molecule/atom/bond),
the way molecules respond when grabbed or clicked and their interactions with the force field.
- **Login**: Provides the functionality of the **Login** menu (connecting to a server, establishing a common coordinate system by scanning a QR code etc.)
- **ForceField**: Contains different ways to compute and apply the force field to molecules in the scene so they behave realistically.

The folder *HoloLens* contains scripts specifically for the use case of the HoloLens 2.
Most notably, the **myScrollObject** script provides the functionality of a scrollable menu used in both the atom menu and the hand menu.

### Prefabs
The *prefabs* folder contains a few useful prefabs. Besides the basics like **Atom** and **Bond**, there are also some that are more generally useful.
If you intend to make a new menu, for example, you may find the **CloseMeButton** prefab to be of interest. Other buttons include a **DeleteMeButton** and a **CopyMeButton**.
They contain the HoloLens' **PressableButton** functionality (e.g. touch interactability and the visualizations for pressing the button) as well as icons corresponding
to their respective use cases and a localized main label (text in German and English).
A **SettingsButton** prefab in the specific format used by the settings menu is also provided.

To use them, you only need to instantiate them and assign a method (see the example button creation for more details).

There are also prefabs for the different types of menus, tooltips and more.

Commit message:

Added image to introduction so it looks less bleak

src/routes/development/00-implementation/00-introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

## How to develop in chARp?

In this development guide we explain the fundamental implementation details about chARp.

## Overview

For a short introduction to the Unity functionalities most used in this project, see *Using Unity*.

### Important scripts
chARp is built using many scripts for specific purposes (e.g. a settings script for the settings menu).
However, there are some larger and more important scripts:
- **GlobalCtrl**: This script controls and coordinates most functionalities in the **MainScene**.
It provides the implementation for molecule creation and manipulation, core computations and features like the *Undo* functionality.
- **Molecule**,**Atom** and **Bond**: These scripts contain the characteristic data of molecules, atoms and chemical bonds.
This includes things like a list of connected atoms, a list of bonds in the molecule, methods for spawning tooltips (when selecting a molecule/atom/bond),
the way molecules respond when grabbed or clicked and their interactions with the force field.
- **Login**: Provides the functionality of the **Login** menu (connecting to a server, establishing a common coordinate system by scanning a QR code etc.)
- **ForceField**: Contains different ways to compute and apply the force field to molecules in the scene so they behave realistically.

The folder *HoloLens* contains scripts specifically for the use case of the HoloLens 2.
Most notably, the **myScrollObject** script provides the functionality of a scrollable menu used in both the atom menu and the hand menu.

### Prefabs
The *prefabs* folder contains a few useful prefabs. 

<img src="/images/development/prefabs.png" alt="Prefabs" class="mx-auto max-w-xl" />

Besides the basics like **Atom** and **Bond**, there are also some that are more generally useful.
If you intend to make a new menu, for example, you may find the **CloseMeButton** prefab to be of interest. Other buttons include a **DeleteMeButton** and a **CopyMeButton**.
They contain the HoloLens' **PressableButton** functionality (e.g. touch interactability and the visualizations for pressing the button) as well as icons corresponding
to their respective use cases and a localized main label (text in German and English).
A **SettingsButton** prefab in the specific format used by the settings menu is also provided.

To use them, you only need to instantiate them and assign a method (see the example button creation for more details).

There are also prefabs for the different types of menus, tooltips and more.
